README.md, before:

# singularity

#### Table of Contents

1. [Description](#description)
1. [Usage](#usage)
1. [Limitations](#limitations)

## Description

This puppet module allows to install and configure [singularity](http://singularity.lbl.gov). It relies on the availability of the [Puppetlabs stdlib puppet module](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib). On Debian based operating systems it additionally requires the [Puppetlabs apt puppet module](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-apt).

Unless specified differently, it installs singularity from one of [these openSUSE build service repositories](http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/ubn:/singularity) and sets up the singularity configuration according to the provided settings.

## Usage

A minimal working example looks like this:

```puppet
class { '::singularity': }
```

An example with some custom settings is this:

```puppet
class { '::singularity':
    mount_tmp     => false,
    bind_path     => [
        {
            source      => '/etc/singularity/default-nsswitch.conf',
            destination => '/etc/nsswitch.conf',
        },
        '/opt',
        '/scratch',
    ],
    manage_repo   => true,
    repo_url      => 'http://yum.example.com/singularity',
    repo_gpgcheck => true,
    repo_gpgkey   => 'http://yum.example.com/singularity/RPM-GPG-KEY-singularity',
}
```
Allowed parameters are (descriptions are copied verbatim from the explanations in the [singularity.conf](https://github.com/singularityware/singularity/blob/master/etc/singularity.conf.in) file where applicable):

##### `allow_setuid`
Should we allow users to utilize the setuid binary for launching singularity? (default: yes)

##### `max_loop_devices`
Set the maximum number of loop devices that Singularity should ever attempt to utilize. (default: 256)

##### `allow_pid_ns`
Should we allow users to request the PID namespace? (default: yes)

##### `enable_overlay`
Enabling this option will make it possible to specify bind paths to locations that do not currently exist within the container. (default: yes)

##### `config_passwd`
If /etc/passwd exists within the container, this will automatically append an entry for the calling user. (default: yes)

##### `config_group`
If /etc/group exists within the container, this will automatically append an entry for the calling user. (default: yes)

##### `config_resolv_conf`
If there is a bind point within the container, use the host's /etc/resolv.conf. (default: yes)

##### `mount_proc`
Should we automatically bind mount /proc within the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_sys`
Should we automatically bind mount /sys within the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_dev`
Should we automatically bind mount /dev within the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_home`
Should we automatically determine the calling user's home directory and attempt to mount it's base path into the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_tmp`
Should we automatically bind mount /tmp and /var/tmp into the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_hostfs`
Probe for all mounted file systems that are mounted on the host, and bind those into the container? (default: no)

##### `user_bind_control`
Allow users to influence and/or define bind points at runtime? (default: yes)

##### `mount_slave`
Should we automatically propagate file-system changes from the host? (default: yes)

##### `sessiondir_max_size`
This specifies how large the default sessiondir should be (in MB). (default: 16)

##### `limit_container_owners`
Only allow containers to be used that are owned by users in given array. (default: undef)

##### `limit_container_paths`
Only allow containers to be used that are located within the given path prefix array. (default: undef)

##### `bind_path`
Define a list of files/directories that should be made available from within the container. (default: undef)

##### `manage_repo`
Should this module handle singularity repository setup? (default: true)

##### `repo_ensure`
Ensure singularity repository is either 'present' or 'absent'. (default: 'present')

##### `repo_url`
Use given repository URL. (default: http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/ubn:/singularity/<os_name\>_<os_version\>)

##### `repo_gpgcheck`
Should we check GPG signature? (default: true)

##### `repo_gpgkey`
Verify using this GPG key. (default: http://build.opensuse.org/projects/home:ubn:singularity/public_key)

##### `repo_gpgkey_id`
The ID of the GPG key (this is only used on Debian based operating systems) (default: '2CB50B5F357B924430F4680582B1F0EF39E31E24')

##### `package_ensure`
Ensure particular package version. (default: 'latest')

##### `package_name`
Name of the singularity package (default: 'singularity-container' on Debian based operating systems, 'singularity' on other OSes)

## Limitations
At present this module only supports Redhat and Debian based operating systems.

Commit message:

Update documentation for Singularity 2.6.
Also includes documentation of underlay-specific options
for EPEL-only version.

README.md, after:

# singularity

#### Table of Contents

1. [Description](#description)
1. [Usage](#usage)
1. [Limitations](#limitations)

## Description

This puppet module allows to install and configure [singularity](http://singularity.lbl.gov). It relies on the availability of the [Puppetlabs stdlib puppet module](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib). On Debian based operating systems it additionally requires the [Puppetlabs apt puppet module](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-apt).

Unless specified differently, it installs singularity from the [EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) repositories on RHEL systems. For Debian systems, you have to provide a repository by yourself.

It sets up the singularity configuration according to the provided settings.

## Usage

A minimal working example looks like this:

```puppet
class { '::singularity': }
```

An example with some custom settings is this:

```puppet
class { '::singularity':
    mount_tmp     => false,
    bind_path     => [
        {
            source      => '/etc/singularity/default-nsswitch.conf',
            destination => '/etc/nsswitch.conf',
        },
        '/opt',
        '/scratch',
    ],
    manage_repo   => true,
    repo_url      => 'http://yum.example.com/singularity',
    repo_gpgcheck => true,
    repo_gpgkey   => 'http://yum.example.com/singularity/RPM-GPG-KEY-singularity',
}
```
Allowed parameters are (descriptions are copied verbatim from the explanations in the [singularity.conf](https://github.com/singularityware/singularity/blob/master/etc/singularity.conf.in) file where applicable):

##### `allow_setuid`
Should we allow users to utilize the setuid binary for launching singularity? (default: yes)

##### `max_loop_devices`
Set the maximum number of loop devices that Singularity should ever attempt to utilize. (default: 256)

##### `allow_pid_ns`
Should we allow users to request the PID namespace? (default: yes)

##### `enable_overlay`
Enabling this option will make it possible to specify bind paths to locations that do not currently exist within the container. (default: try)

##### `with_underlay_patch`
Set this to have the module add the parameter to configure the underlay feature.
This feature is not provided by upstream yet, but part of the [EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) package.
The corresponding PR is found [here](https://github.com/singularityware/singularity/pull/1817).

##### `enable_underlay`
Enabling this option will make it possible to specify bind paths to locations
that do not currently exist within the container, similar to the overlay
option.  This will only be used if overlay is not enabled. (default: no)

##### `config_passwd`
If /etc/passwd exists within the container, this will automatically append an entry for the calling user. (default: yes)

##### `config_group`
If /etc/group exists within the container, this will automatically append an entry for the calling user. (default: yes)

##### `config_resolv_conf`
If there is a bind point within the container, use the host's /etc/resolv.conf. (default: yes)

##### `mount_proc`
Should we automatically bind mount /proc within the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_sys`
Should we automatically bind mount /sys within the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_dev`
Should we automatically bind mount /dev within the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_home`
Should we automatically determine the calling user's home directory and attempt to mount it's base path into the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_tmp`
Should we automatically bind mount /tmp and /var/tmp into the container? (default: yes)

##### `mount_hostfs`
Probe for all mounted file systems that are mounted on the host, and bind those into the container? (default: no)

##### `user_bind_control`
Allow users to influence and/or define bind points at runtime? (default: yes)

##### `mount_slave`
Should we automatically propagate file-system changes from the host? (default: yes)

##### `sessiondir_max_size`
This specifies how large the default sessiondir should be (in MB). (default: 16)

##### `limit_container_owners`
Only allow containers to be used that are owned by users in given array. (default: undef)

##### `limit_container_groups`
Only allow containers to be used that are owned by groups in given array. (default: undef)

##### `limit_container_paths`
Only allow containers to be used that are located within the given path prefix array. (default: undef)

##### `bind_path`
Define a list of files/directories that should be made available from within the container. (default: undef)

##### `memory_fs_type`
Chooses temporary filesystem used by Singularity.
Available options are `tmpfs` and `ramfs`.

##### `always_use_nv`
Always pass `--nv` option to Singularity implicitly.

##### `use_repo_urls`
Uses provided repository URLs (and gpgkey etc) instead of built-in default (EPEL for now only).

##### `manage_repo`
Should this module handle singularity repository setup? (default: true)

##### `repo_ensure`
Ensure singularity repository is either 'present' or 'absent'. (default: 'present')

##### `repo_url`
Use given repository URL. (default: undef)

##### `repo_gpgcheck`
Should we check GPG signature? (default: true)

##### `repo_gpgkey`
Verify using this GPG key. (default: undef)

##### `repo_gpgkey_id`
The ID of the GPG key (this is only used on Debian based operating systems) (default: undef)

##### `package_ensure`
Ensure particular package version. (default: 'latest')

##### `package_name`
Name of the singularity package (default: 'singularity-container' on Debian based operating systems, 'singularity' on other OSes)

## Limitations
At present this module only supports Redhat and Debian based operating systems.
